---
title: Encounters
---

This is a place to store interesting, ideally reusable encounters. These could be broken down by biome, region, time of day, etc. A future iteration will store the encounters in AirTable with tags so that you can search along different dimensions.

# List

1. **Flowers for the bloodweed.** This organic trap is built from the symbiosis between a cliff-growing vine with hallucinogenic blooms and a bloodweed fungus. The vine grows up the sides of steep terrain, such as ravines and cliffsides. It's lavender blooms exude a hallucinatory reagent that smells of citrus and lures prey over the cliff's edge to their death. At the bottom, the bloodweed fungus consumes the fallen carcasses and passes nutrients through the soil to the roots of the cliff vine.
1. **Flowers for the dead.** The foul stench of physical decay erupts suddenly from somewhere nearby. In a small, heavily shaded clearing, two [corpse flowers](https://www.dndbeyond.com/monsters/corpse-flower) consume the remains of a family of pilgrims who had been robbed and murdered by brigands. Hiding in the battered remains of the cart is a terrified teenage orcish sorcerer. If the teen learns that there are adventurers nearby, he will start screaming for help, which draws the attention of the corpse flowers to his location.
1. **Map, trap, map.** When scouting for a good place to make camp, the part discover a map at the edge of the fire ring, perhaps even half burnt. The map plots a location that is only an hour or so out of the way. If the party follow the map, it leads to deeper into the wild to a recently cleared area in what is otherwise dense undergrowth. In the clearing sits a small cairn. Beneath the cairn is the relatively fresh corpse of a female goblyn cleric with a tattoo of an aboleth on her neck, its tendrils wrapping around her throat. The cairn is protected with explosive runes ([Glyph of Warding](https://dndbeyond.com/spells/glyph-of-warding) DC 18) held in the hands of the cleric. The runes are sensitive to mootion. If any rock in the cairn is lifted or moved, the trap will go off. Intrepid adventurers who detect the trap can evade it by deftly and slowly removing the rocks  (succeed on two of three DC 18 DEX checks, takes 20m). A prayer of repose uttered over the cairn will also disarm the trap. An inner pocket of the cleric's robe contains a map to gold mine or other valuable resource that is nowhere near where the party's present location, as well as a deed to the resource, and a letter from the cleric to her paramour, for whom she considers betraying her order and embezzling the resource.
1. **Sounding party.** The party encounters a surveyor, who must take soundings in the area so that they can study the spread of some ecological/arcane phenomenon, such as the the spread of a wasteland or the effects of some environmental bane. The surveyor tries to enlist the party to escort him so that he can accomplish his soundings safely. If the party agrees to help, the surveyor rewards them with valuable lore about some subject of concern to the party. The lore comes out in conversation during their time together. 
1. **Swiss Family Brigands.** A family of brigands and con artists run a grift as a lost and clueless collection of travelers. This was true of them about two months ago, when they left their ancestral homes in fear, took to the road, and were themselves were robbed of all their possessions and left for dead. The intervening months and the necessity of survival on the road have made first-class brigands of the lot. (Turns out its a natural family talent.) If the party stops to help, the family will grift whatever they can with charm and wit, looking for an opportunity to subdue the party physically and extort/rob them completely.
1. [**The Oracle and the Barbarian**](/07-encounters/oracle-and-barbarian).
1. [**Ghell, the Lessor**](/07-encounters/ghell-the-lessor).
1. **Martial artisans in search of escort.** An old uncle and his young niece are transporting precious materials for arcane weapons to Kima for tempering in the White Sun hearth forges. The pair are eager to hire a trustworthy escort for the last and most dangerous leg of the journey. It appears to be a miracle they've made it this far.
1. **Looters in search of nearby ruins.** The party detects quarreling in the woods. Perhaps also, they detect the use of illusion magic. On investigation, there is a small band of looters looking for ruins they know are nearby but cannot find. One of them thinks the ruins are hidden. Another, who knows some magic is furious at the implication, since they have already tried to detect the illusion to no avail. They entreat the party to help them. If the party agrees, they may change their mind once they see what's beneath the illusion—a pair of locked cellar doors, guarded with some animated vines. Beneath is a hallway/room that is trapped (see [Fear Gauntlet](https://www.patreon.com/posts/patreon-dump-4-30906814)). A mini-dungeon that leads to some cash and a magic item or two. If they disturb this site, there is always the possibility of trouble.